Starting the App Entry Process: From the FIMMAS Main Menu, click the Apps & New Business button. When the Application Search window opens, click the Add toolbar button.
FIMMAS provides search windows as entry points for locating data throughout the system.
Typically, the Application Search window is used to search for an application by Insured Name, SSN, DOB, Plan ID, Effective Date, etc or by using a partial key, or a search range, to return a list of search results matching your criteria. 
Search windows are also used to add a new entity, based on the module in which you're currently working.
For example, new application records are added to FIMMAS via the Add button on the Application Search window. This brings you to the first Application Entry window (Product Type). The Application Entry workflow involves: 1. Selecting the Product Type 2. Defining Plan Information 3. Assigning a Contract Number 4. Identifying the Insured 5. Naming the Agent 6. Entering Policy Information 7. Defining Contract Relationships 8. Assigning Beneficiaries 9. Answering Underwriting Questions 10. Adding Riders to the Contract 11. Running the Application Journal.

Application Entry – Product Type: The first Application Entry window is used to select the Product Type for the Application. Here you need to Set the Trial Application flag to Yes to enter an application that can act as an estimate. Then Click the Continue toolbar button (or press Enter on your keyboard) to move to the Application Entry – Plan Information window.
Application Entry – Plan Information: 1. Select the Reporting Company associated with this contract. 2. Use the lookup to select the Plan ID to identify the specific insurance plan. 3. Enter (or select) the State of Issue to specify the state in which the contract is being issued. The State of Issue is used to verify plan approvals and agent licenses. 4. Enter the App Signed Date (the date the application was signed). 5. Use the Replacement Code drop-down list to specify if the contract is: N Not a replacement (default) I Internal Replacement E External Replacement/Rollover T IRA Transfer X 1035 Exchange C Contribution from Qualified Account G Lottery Case 6. Enter the date the application was received (App Received Date). 7. Use the Eff Date field to indicate the date the Contract becomes effective. 8. The Source ID and Source Code indicate the origin of the selected contract. For example, if the Source ID is GC (Group Conversion), the Source Code will contain the Group ID from the group where the selected contract originated. A Source ID of "NB" is typically used for normal new business. 9. Set the FATCA Required? Indicates if the contract is subject to FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act) and W8 or W9 is required. 10. Y = Contract is subject to FATCA requirements and W8 or W9 is required. 11. N = Contract is not subject to FATCA requirements 12. Default value = N 13. The Family Group No field can be used to link contracts in a family or business group. Clicking the Search button to the right of the field opens the Family Search window. 14. Use the Group ID field to associate the new contract with a Group. If there is not a group association, the field can be left blank. Clicking the Search button to the right of the field opens the Scan Group Master window. 15. If applicable, select the marketing Campaign ID under which the contract was sold. Clicking the Search button to the right of the field opens the Scan Marketing Campaign window. 16. The Underwriter ID identifies the Underwriter for this contract. Clicking the Search button to the right of the field opens the Scan User Profile window. 17. The Auto Client Search? field is set to Yes when a new application is being entered. The flag changes to No once a client is selected (meaning, when you perform application maintenance, the Client Search window doesn't automatically open and prompt you for a selection). 18. The Application Type field indicates if the application is a Trial Application or a Formal Application, 19. The New Policy field indicates whether this contract is a new or existing contract (Yes or No). 20. Use the Reissue field to specify whether or not (Yes or No) the contract is being reissued. 21. The In Force Code field is used to show if the contract is being placed In Force (New Business or Conversion). This field defaults to "NB" when adding a new application. Clicking the Search button to the right of the field opens the Scan Status Codes window. 22. Select (click) the Has Applicant Consented to MIB Check? checkbox if the applicant has agreed to the check. 23. Click the Continue toolbar button (or press Enter on your keyboard) to populate the description fields on the window based on the information you've selected or entered. 24. Click the Continue toolbar button again to store the record and advance to the Application Entry – Assign Contract Number window.
Application Entry – Assign Contract Number: The Application Entry – Assign Contract Number window confirms (or displays) the application's Contract Number.then Click the Continue toolbar button (or press Enter) to advance to the Client Search – Primary Insured window
Client Search – Primary Insured: Before entering specific insured information, it's important to ascertain if there is similar—or matching—client data in the system already. With the Client Search – Primary Insured window open on your desktop, enter the following information (or a combination thereof): The Name of the proposed insured (as LASTNAME, FIRSTNAME MIDDLENAME). The Client Type as I (for Individual) or C (for Corporation). The proposed insured's Social Security Number or Tax ID number. The proposed insured's Date of Birth. Click the Search button at the bottom of the window (or press Enter) to generate a list of clients matching the criteria you entered. One of three possible events takes place at this point:If the search results contain the individual you're searching for, highlight their record in the list and click the Select button. If the client you need isn't in the list—and therefore has no FIMMAS record—click the Add toolbar button on the Client Search List to open a new Client Entry – Individual window. If no matches are found, the Client Entry – Individual window is opened, and the Client Search List is bypassed. NOTE: If a Client Type was not entered on the Client Search window, you will be prompted to select one before proceeding to the Client Entry – Individual window.
